With GBT3, you couldn't scale test time
compute. Like if you gave it a budget of
$10 million and said, "Okay, well, let's
see what GB3 can do." It really can't do
that much. The precurren frameworks and
responsible scaling policies, they don't
really account for the amount of testime
compute. They just say, "Okay, well,
what's the capability of the model?" The
problem is we're in a world now where
the capability of the model is a
function of how much money you put into
it. Basically, if you give it a budget
of $10,000, it can do a lot more than
what it can do with a budget of $10.
Give it a budget of $10 million, you can
do even more. At what budget should you
evaluate these models? The policies that
exist today don't really address that
question.
Hi listeners, I'm Sarah Goa and welcome
back to No Priors. Today I'm here with
Nome Brown, one of our godfathers of AI
reasoning. We talk about the broken
state of evaluations, very large-scale
test time compute, how he thinks about
recursive self-improvement, and what's
next on the horizon for competition at
the frontier. Welcome, Gnome. I'm so
excited to have you back.
>> That's great to be back. Yeah,
>> you are our first guest. I'm very proud
of my taste in friends and researchers
for uh for the pod. um given you know
how important uh you know inference time
scaling has become to the industry you
should be proud too having actually
pioneered it
>> played a part yeah among among many
others
>> you just wrote this essay that really
resonated about large scale test time
compute and why uh the industry is not
evaluating these models as robustly as
it should be what was the motivation for
it
>> yeah the motivation was we released 5.5
and the initial reaction ction was kind
of skepticism that it was a
substantially better model. To be fair,
that only lasted for a few hours before
people had some time to play around with
it and and try it out themselves and
they saw that it was actually
substantially better. Um, but I think a
lot of the skepticism came from the
benchmark grid that was published.
Basically, whenever a new model is
released, there's this benchmark grid
where they show all these different
benchmarks on on the x-axxis and then
the performance of different models on
the y- axis and you can just like
compare different models. It's like a
single number for a model on a single
benchmark. And if you look on paper at
the difference between like 5.5 and 5.4
or or other models, it wasn't it was an
improvement, but it wasn't a huge
improvement. It was only a few
percentage points in some benchmarks.
So, people looked at that and they were
skeptical that it was actually a better
model. Um, once they played around with
it, the story changed. I think the
reason why it doesn't show up as so much
better on the benchmarks is because the
benchmarks are being presented, the
benchmark results are being presented in
the wrong way. They're not controlling
for the amount of test time compute that
is being used on that benchmark
question. It turned out that 5.5 is just
much more efficient with its thinking.
If you run it at max settings, 5.4 is
thinking for a lot longer. It takes
longer to get back a response than 5.5.
And once you control for the amount of
thinking time, actually you can see that
5.5 is a substantial jump over 5.4. That
is, I think, people's day-to-day
experience with it. And then when I
mention this to people the reaction, the
typical question I get is like okay well
why not just have 5.5 think for as long
as 5.4 and the question is like well how
long should they think for? Typically
the response I get is well until the
performance plateaus right there's at
some point where the performance on the
benchmark is going to plateau and you
evaluate to that point. The thing is the
point at which it plateaus is actually
really far out these days. I mean, it
was true in GBD3 land back in 2022, the
models couldn't really think
productively for that long. And so, you
could just run them until they plateau.
It's not that far away. But what we're
seeing today with the modern models is
that 5.5 and other models can think for
if you scaffold them reasonably well,
can think for weeks even um before
having performance plateau on some of
these benchmarks. And so, the point at
which they plateau is simply too far out
to reasonably test. we all need to
actually reinforce um either like a
patience limit or a budget limit from a
token perspective now and that wasn't
true a few years ago.
>> Exactly. And so I think the proper way
to and so my claim is the proper way to
evaluate the models now is you either
have some kind of budget for the
benchmark whether it's tokens or cost or
time or whatever or you plot the
performance as a function of the amount
of test time compute that's going into
the model and then it becomes much more
clear um how to compare the performance
between these different models.
>> Given the model evaluation cycle and the
fact that performance does not asmtote
for many tasks over um quite a long
period of time. What do you do about
that issue? The fact that some of the
evals that you would want to run are
both beyond the scope of budget or time
that's reasonable given the current
model release cycle.
>> I mean, I think for things like cyber,
we've seen and actually the AIS um in
their evaluations has shown that the
models continue to improve um at 100
million tokens. You know, if you run
them for 100 million tokens, they're
still improving at beyond that point.
>> And that can take a very long time to
run. But you also do see that like the
performance is is it's not just like a
discontinuous jump. It's actually like
you can see the slope of improvement
over those 100 million tokens. And so
you could you could probably do some
kind of uh evaluation up to a certain
budget and then just say okay well this
is what we project the performance to
look like. And I think this this there
hasn't been a lot of research on this
yet. I actually think this would be a
great paper to publish if there's any
academics out there looking for
something to research. Can you predict
what the performance looks like at an
inference budget of let's say $10,000
only using inference budgets up to 10 or
10 or $100?
>> So maybe an orthogonal question for you.
Uh do you think users are systematically
like not thinking long enough with their
models about problems?
>> What do you mean by not thinking long
enough? um if the if you can
build an agent or control the amount of
um test time compute being used like
there's there's what is done by the
model itself and there's what the user
can do. Um do you think that like you
know the industry is using test time
compute an optimal amount uh way
undershooting it or it's you know it's a
problem in the models where they just
need to be able to do that thinking
faster.
>> I I think it depends on the problem. Uh
I think this idea that the models you
just let them think for a week or
whatever and then they respond. It's it
sounds nice and yes the benchmarks look
great but it's not very practical when
working u because like okay you ask the
model a question and then you sit there
for a week waiting for it to come back
to you.
>> I think what people have have found most
effective is to kind of like iterate
quickly with the models and so the
thinking time I think needs to be
flexible. when it makes sense to respond
quickly to the user, it should respond
quickly. And then when it makes sense to
think for a long time and the user wants
it to think for a long time, then it
makes sense to think for a long time. I
think people have been striking the
right balance given what they have to
deal with right now.
>> How would you characterize, you know,
there's a lot of talk about benchmark
maxing and the ability to game different
benchmarks? What would you characterize
the like landscape of benchmarks as
today? And then do you have like
favorites that you think are more
indicative of capability than others? So
the benchmark maxing thing is also
motivation for for writing the essay
that I think it's really easy to show
you can do much better than previous
benchmarks or or previous previous
models on benchmarks by just for example
scaffolding a bunch of models together.
Um so if you say okay well we're going
to instead of just running this model
once we're going to run it five times
and take the best of the five responses
or like ask a judge which one it thinks
is best then you can get much higher
scores than that model. And so it's
really easy to make something that looks
a lot better on paper but is actually
not better once you control for the
amount of test time compute. That is one
thing that I'm worried about when it
comes to benchmark maxing. I mean it
like it's it's a little misleading is
the only concern that I have. And then
as far as like the benchmarks
themselves, I think there is always a
risk of like just optimizing for the
benchmark. And I've I've certainly
encouraged my team and I think at OpenAI
we're pretty good about not trying to
optimize for for specific benchmarks.
But once you put out a benchmark, it's
there's it's always at risk of just
being optimized for. And I think one way
to one way to address that is to keep a
held out private set um that isn't uh
publicly available.
>> The most popular fallback advice for you
know figure out if a model is
significantly better or not is to just
play with it for a while. Do you have
anything more sophisticated than that
that you suggest people do? like do you
create your own set of new evaluations
each time besides private holdback at
OpenAI?
>> I think everybody has their own set of
questions that they like to ask the
model whenever it comes out.
>> Um for me lately it's been I I use them
to make poker bots and see how good they
can make a poker bot. I think it's a
nice eval because there is very little
um open source code for making poker
bots and there's a lot of published
essay there's a lot of published papers
on it but you really have to reason
through everything and it's like
requires a lot of just reasoning and
iteration and like a lot of small
gotchas
>> that I can kind of I've already worked
through myself so I can see where the
models fail along the way. They've
gotten really good at it now. Can you
describe perhaps like with your poker
bot creation like how reasoning might
have progressed in model releases for
you guys over a few uh releases?
>> Yeah, when the early models were really
bad at it, like they could not basically
do anything. And then 5.2
I was able to work with it to make a
river solver.
>> So that's like the final stage of poker.
And um that itself was I thought really
impressive. I mean I had to work with it
a little bit, but I was actually really
impressed cuz I was able to make the
river solver probably about five times
faster than I would have alone. There
were a couple things that I got um
tripped up on. Uh blockers was always a
big big issue. But overall, like, you
know, with a with a bit of gentle
steering, it just kind of like it kind
of felt like a grad student where, okay,
they would run into issues, but at least
like I would um know what those issues
were and know how to fix it, and I could
just make suggestions and it would go
off and then do it and then pretty
quickly it would actually come back with
something really good.
>> Mhm.
>> And then especially the optimization I
thought was very impressive. It was able
to make it like 10 times faster than
what I was able to do because it was
just able to optimize um the code so
well. The downsides with 5.2 is I felt
like it was gaslighting me a lot and I
always had to be very careful checking
it and making sure like, okay, is it
actually doing what it said it did? Um,
are there any things that are like
glaring issues that it's not recognizing
or it's just pretending aren't issues?
Um, I remember there was like one point
uh where for one of the models I was
playing around with it, not 5.2,
I kind of like as a as a unit test, I
told it, okay, well, let's say um I have
$100 in the pot and I fold. How much am
I losing? And the model said $92. And I
was like, that's crazy. I have $100 in
the pot and I just fold it. How do I not
lose $100? And it said, oh, you know,
it's 92. It's close to 100. It's fine.
It's no big deal. And I was like,
clearly this is a problem, right? So the
models did have this problem where they
would gaslight you a lot. But once we
got to 5.5, I actually thought um it was
way better. It was able to basically do
it zero shot. And in fact, I've been
working on just doing a full scale poker
solver. Um and it it's basically able to
do the whole thing uh with some gentle
steering from me. And I wouldn't be
surprised if you know 6 months or a year
from now, the model is able to do zero
shot an entire poker solver, basically
my entire PhD thesis in one go. Let's
talk about the larger implications of
you know needing to evaluate these
models relative to um let's say like
speed of their reasoning or efficiency
versus you know token volume right um or
dollar budget or whatever whatever your
scalar is. Can you describe some of the
larger implications in your essay
including around um like safety
evaluations? Yeah, the safety
evaluations thing. Um, it's it's a bit
of an inconvenient truth thing where
okay, so I guess for background, a lot
of the all of the labs have these things
called either responsible scaling
policies, preparedness frameworks. They
go by various names, but the idea is
that whenever a model is released, they
go through a series of evaluations to
measure are there dangerous
capabilities? Um, could these models do
things that we're we we wouldn't want um
a bad actor to do. And if the model
isn't very capable, then it's no big
deal. But if it is very capable, if it
could be used for example to make
bioweapons, then you want to put in
mitigations against that.
>> But the question is okay, well, how do
you evaluate whether the model is
capable of that? And they have like
various protocols about like how they do
these valuations. But a lot of these
frameworks were developed around the era
of chatgpt before after when test time
comput scaling was not really uh as much
of a thing and it made sense like with
GPT3 you couldn't scale test time
compute like if you gave it a budget of
$10 million and said okay well let's see
what GP3 can do it really can't do that
much more than what you could do with
like $10 or $1. the preparedness
frameworks and responsible scaling
policies, they don't really account for
the amount of test time compute. They
just say, "Okay, well, what's the
capability of the model? The problem is
we're in a world now where the
capability of the model is a function of
how much money you put into it.
Basically, if you give it a budget of
$10,000, it can do a lot more than what
it can do with a budget of $10. If you
give it a budget of $10 million, it can
do even more." And so, at what budget
should you evaluate these models? the
policies that exist today don't really
address that question.
>> Mhm.
>> Uh some do some do better than others,
but um for the most part, this is not
really a factor that's being heavily
considered. Now, whether it should be
released anyway, I don't I don't want to
wait into this question. I think
there's, you know, there's arguments on
both sides, but I think the important
thing to recognize is that this is a
question that is not being we're just
kind of like, you know, pretending that
this issue doesn't exist. And I think
it's important to just, you know, one
way or the other um account for it.
Yeah, it's the mirror image of the
capability question of if the models can
uh continue to do more and more without
asmmptoing on some tasks at very large
budgets um then they should also be able
to do so for uh tasks we don't want them
to do as a society, right? And so
testing for that um and what budget is
allocated. It also seems out of sync
from the model release cycle itself,
right? there's been this acceleration
of, you know, you get a new model every
sometimes few days and weeks at this
point versus 6 months. And you have a
line in the essay where you say like the
the only way to truly evaluate an agent
on some very longunning task might be to
run it for a year. And that's going to
be true of both like useful and uh
negative tasks, right? And so how do you
think about that versus the model
release cycle? Yeah, this this is also
an interesting dynamic where basically
as the models have become stronger,
they've they're more they're better able
to operate over longer horizons.
>> So again, with GPD3, if you wanted to
run it for, you know, a week, there's
really not much you could do to scaffold
it into something useful that could
actually run for a week. But we're
seeing now with the most recent models
that you can actually scaffold, for
example, 5.5 into doing a series of
experiments that can run for weeks, for
months. Have you given your poker solver
task like infinite budget yet?
>> I haven't really scaffolded something
together where I just tell it like,
"Okay, just run this for um for weeks."
I think I could give it I I could ask I
could probably give it / goal and just
like yeah, tell it to go nuts.
>> But um I I think at this point it could
100% do the river solver. Um, if I just
give it slash goal, I don't think it's
at the level yet where it could do like
the full poker solver if I gave it just
slash goal and told it, yeah, go go run
for a month. But we're going to pretty
soon be at that point where I probably
could just tell it like, yeah, go work
on this for a month and then come back
to me with a a full complete poker
solver that's state-of-the-art.
And the problem is if you want to
evaluate the capabilities of a model,
what it can do after running for a
month, the only way to be fully sure is
to actually run it for a month. And if
you want to know after 6 months, the
only way to know fully is to run it for
six months. Now there I I'll get to like
things we could do to address that a
little bit later. But like it's
important to recognize the model release
cycle is look, we're releasing new
models like every two or three months at
this point. And so a model comes out, it
takes two or 3 months to push it to its
limits and then you have another model
come out. And so nobody actually knows
what the ceiling of capabilities are for
these models because nobody's actually
run them for long enough to really tell.
When slash goal came out, for example, I
mean, people started running things that
it took over a week for it to finish.
And so, people actually didn't realize
that this was a big deal until after a
week uh until a week after it was
released.
>> Mhm.
>> I think that's going to be more and more
true. You know, the implications of that
are, I think, pretty interesting because
what do the labs do to like fully
evaluate their models before they're
released? It's actually very difficult
because, yeah, you would have to the
only way to to really do the evaluations
is then delay the model release cycle.
Um and you know there's a lot of
competitive pressure right now to not do
that.
>> Do you think there's um like exciting
latent capability in the models that are
already released that people have not
fully explored given timeline?
>> I think absolutely. I think actually a
really great example is the erdo unit
distance problem. So for the viewers
that don't know like we used an internal
model at OpenAI a few weeks ago to uh
disprove the unit erdos unit distance
conjecture. Now, I'm not a
mathematician, but this seems like it
was a pretty big deal in the in the math
community. It was like the first uh
first problem that a lot of
mathematicians had really spent a lot of
time on, and the model was able to do
something that they weren't able to do
and do it in a way that was actually
interesting and useful for
mathematicians. Honestly, it did it at a
budget that was dirt cheap. I mean, we
didn't put a lot of effort into this. We
just we trained a new model and we were
just curious what it could do. And we
ran it through some problems. And this
one at a pretty low budget, it was like,
"Oh, yeah. I think I have a disproof."
And then we were able to verify that
yeah that this proof is correct after we
announced the results a bunch of people
found that you could get the answer out
of 5.5 as well if now it's not as simple
as just asking 5.5 hey here's the unit
distance conjecture what's the disproof
you had to scaffold it a bit you had to
like steer it a bit and so somebody
found okay you ask 5.5 list a bunch of
ways that you could tackle this problem
and then for it it lists one of the
paths that are actually promising to get
to the disproof and then you tell it
like okay explore this some more and
then if you do this enough times it
actually ends up arriving at the
disproof. Now what this means is you
could in principle ask 5.5 to you know
as as a general purpose scaffold list a
bunch of different strategies and then
for each strategy tell it to investigate
that strategy and then it would probably
be able to arrive at the disproof with a
general purpose scaffold. Now that
scaffold would be very expensive. I mean
it would probably cost I I just ballpark
like thousand to 10 to $100,000. Um but
it would be possible and it would have
been possible for somebody to disprove
the erdos unit distance conjecture
before we did using a general purpose
model. And nobody had explored
sufficiently what happens if I put
$100,000 worth of compute into 5.5 what
could it do? Um and the answer is like
yeah you probably could get stuff like
that out of it. So people should be
experimenting more with the current
generation in terms of
>> well this is I think is an interesting
question of is it worth it to experiment
with because again the model release
cycle is every every couple months we
put out a new model that's even more
powerful and so the cost of disproving
the erdosha distance gesture drops by
like 10 or 100x with every model release
cycle probably in some cases more so
>> you've seen the meme that's like oh I
like why why bother doing any
engineering work when I should just wait
for the next
>> model go on vacation come back two
months later and and it's, you know, a
thousand times cheaper. So,
>> do you agree with that?
>> I
>> Is that what you're doing right now at
OpenAI, just waiting for the next model
release?
>> I think I I mean, I will say we're we're
in a period where progress is very fast
and like yeah, the models are becoming
more capable. I I can say like at OpenAI
one of the things that we're we're
actively not doing and look we have a
lot of mathematicians we have a lot of
physicists people are very excited about
what these models can do right now
especially you know the internal models
we are trying to encourage people to not
spend all their time just like going
through all the mathematical open
problems physics problems and um just
seeing pushing the models to their
limits to see what they can prove or
disprove. Um because we really think the
focus should be on how do we make even
more capable models? how can we get them
get them out safely to the world as
quickly as possible so that all the
scientists in the world can use these
models to solve the problems themselves.
Uh so yeah in some sense we are thinking
about this that yes it's really tempting
to um just put all of our efforts into
scaling up these models and see what
they can do at their limits right now
but really the focus should be on how do
we use these models to make even more
powerful models even more capable models
that can do everything much more
cost-ffectively.
What is changing about the uh direction
or allocation of resources for research
in your mind given your beliefs about
this very large scale the impact of very
large scale test time compute? How does
this interact with the um idea of
recursive self-improvement for example
where you know it's a dominant idea for
how you know any lab gets to the best
capability model. So, one thing I should
clarify, I don't think we're at the
point where, okay, you just give it an
arbitrary extremely high inference
budget and it's just it's just super
intelligent across the board.
>> SL goal,
>> yeah,
>> make GPD 7 or whatever and yeah, just go
nuts.
>> What's between us and there then?
>> I think having played around with the
model uh so okay, so first of all, there
are some benchmarks where the models
will just not improve if they have more
inference budget. So, I think a lot of
factual ret uh factual um retrieval kind
of questions fall into this category of
if you ask a person when was Abraham
Lincoln born and they don't know the
date. They could sit there, they could
think about it for a week, if they if
they don't have access to Wikipedia or
something, they're not going to be able
to do better answering that question if
they thought about it for a week
compared to 5 seconds. Same with the
model. If you actually, interestingly
enough, if you give the model these
kinds of like factual retrieval
questions and you give them a little bit
of time to think, they do actually do
better. um but if you give them a week
they're not suddenly going to do better
at remembering dates. There are so
there's some benchmarks where they
clearly improve with more test time
compute and there's some where they
don't. I think on the other extreme
there are um benchmarks where they kind
of obviously will keep improving limit
uh without limit with more test time
compute. So the example I like to point
to is sudoku. If you uh it's there's a
really simple strategy to solving Sudoku
which is just try a bunch of different
random numbers and then see if it fits
the criteria. If it if it matches all
the constraints and if it doesn't just
try a different random combination of
numbers and clearly with enough time you
will be able to solve any puzzle with
this strategy. You can kind of trivally
see like okay any model could keep doing
better and better um if it was just
given more test time compute. So you
have and and all the benchmarks kind of
exist somewhere between these two
extremes. the models are not at the
level where if you just give them enough
test time on compute they will be able
to do um all of our jobs just because
yeah there's some benchmarks where they
will not improve there are some things
where they they will not improve one
thing I see for research in particular
is they don't have very good research
taste right now and so I think they're
actually a very good complement to
researchers especially um you know I've
found like I've found I'm much more
effective by using these models but
they're not able to fully replace the
whole research cycle
Now, does that change with time?
Probably. I mean, I think the models are
getting better across the board. Some
some things are getting better the
faster than others. Um, but they're not
at the point where they're fully
replacing uh researchers with just
enough test time compute.
>> Can you give um an example or two of
like asking the model to do a research
test for just like this is this is a
terrible idea? I mean I I think going
back to my poker solver example, I was
really impressed with the model's
ability to optimize the algorithms that
I had developed in my in my PhD. It was
honestly it it was it was shocking to
see how inefficient I was um in
retrospect and they were able to make it
like you know 10 100x faster. And then I
was like, okay, can you come up with an
algorithm that is better than the
algorithms that I came up with or that
anybody else came up with and go ahead
and like look at all the published work
and synthesize that and then try to come
up with something novel and it it's not
able to do it. And I can give it a lot
of time and it's it's still not able to
do it. Now, it's possible that if I
scaffolded something and like kind of
constrained it a bit more that maybe it
could eventually come up with something
better. Um, but it would take a lot of
it's not just as simple as saying,
"Okay, please come up with a better
algorithm."
>> And how do you think that that gets
improved?
>> What I've seen is with every model
release cycle, um, it does get better at
this sort of thing. It's still it's
still bad in my opinion, but it it's not
as bad as it used to be. And I wouldn't
be surprised if at some point, same
thing with coding, same thing with math,
where there's just like this inflection
point where suddenly it's actually good
enough to be useful. Um I wouldn't be
surprised if we encounter that point for
research taste as well.
>> Given that what do you like what is your
framing of RSI today? Like how should we
think about it?
>> The models are definitely accelerating
what researchers can do inside the labs.
But I think they are accelerating some
things and not other things. And
currently we're at the point where okay
if something goes 100x faster you get
bottlenecked by the things that don't go
100x faster. over time the things that
we're getting bottlenecked on are going
to shrink and and there will be I think
um a kind of a gradual takeoff in that
respect but it's more about transforming
right now it's more about transforming
what researchers do rather than fully
replacing the researchers
>> so that actually implies that you don't
think we're close to a very fast takeoff
right now
>> I think fast takeoff is relative things
are moving very fast but I think there
is this hypothesis that you could have
basically an overnight intelligence
explosion where the models discover some
kind of breakthrough through to make
themselves smarter and then that leads
to more breakthroughs that make
themselves even smarter immediately and
you have basically in an instance the
models just you know becoming very
superhuman across the board uh in in
moments and I don't think we're headed
to that world largely because of the
fact that the models rely so much on
large scale test time compute in order
to achieve um their greatest
intelligence. If you if it requires so
much test time on compute to unlock the
full capabilities of the model, then
that means you're bottlenecked by time
um things can only go so fast because
the models need to run for long enough
to um to actually do something really
really powerful. Time itself becomes a
bottleneck to what we can do and I I
think that is the case right now for a
lot of the labs that ultimately I think
the biggest bottleneck for all of us is
time and that's why all the researchers
are working so intensely right now. It's
it's just so many um so many hours per
week are being put into this because we
all see what the overhang is. We see
what the capabilities are and we're just
bottlenecked by how quickly can we do
things.
>> What do you think is on the frontier um
that is less explored now? Like we've
talked about multi-agent before.
>> I think multi-agent is quite explored.
Um I think
>> at sufficient scale,
>> I think there's a lot more that could be
done. Um, but it's also one of the
things that's that's hard to do at a lot
of research is hard to do at small skin.
I think multi- agent in particular, it
really requires in order to fully unlock
the cubilities. I think requires like
frontier models. I think we've seen some
pretty interesting multi- aent
scaffolds. I think um they're able to do
a lot, but I think it's really just
scratching the surface of what it will
be able to do. I mean, one way that I
think about it is if if you look at
human civilization, it's not that humans
have become smarter over it's not that
they evolved to become smarter over, you
know, the past 50,000 years. It's that
humans are able to do a lot more today
than they were back in caveman times
because there have been billions of
humans thinking for a long time and
building off of each other's accumulated
knowledge.
>> We have like very good retrieval and
scaffolding versus 50,000 years ago. Uh
it's not even I wouldn't even call it a
scaffold. It's just like this is a very
like organic emerging property of just
like humans being able to accumulate
knowledge, share it, um and build off of
it. We're not seeing that with AI models
today. They kind of they're they're born
into a world for and they exist for a
very short context window and then they
just like disappear.
>> And yeah, there are things that you can
kind of do to like continue them, but
it's very limited. I do think eventually
we will and we're starting to see like
signs that we're entering a world where
they can coordinate on a large scale. I
think multbook and open claw when they
first came out I think it was obviously
a bit overhyped but they were um
an indication of where things could go
in the future and I do think that
eventually we get to that kind of world
>> of some sort of coordinated compounding
state.
>> Yeah. uh the ability of the models to to
share knowledge um on a more global
level and be able to build on that
knowledge productively.
>> Given this set of beliefs and your work
like uh how would you characterize just
competition at the frontier between the
between the three kingdoms if there is
no overnight takeoff? It's just
researchers grinding away trying to make
good high taste algorithmic and
investment decisions about where to go
and then compute allocation and then
policy decisions and eval decisions.
>> Um
>> that feels like slightly more grounded
than um uh I support I suppose like
racing towards some immediate hard
takeoff that nobody can catch you on.
>> I think the competition is very intense
right now. I do think the models that
exist today um are accelerating what
researchers at the Frontier Labs can do.
Um there's obviously like I said limits
to that right now, but it the ability to
use the models to improve the model
research is a real thing and it's um it
it is like an amplifying force. I think
that will continue to be true. I think
they'll become more true over time. One
thing that I am comforted by is I think
all the researchers at the frontier labs
like all the frontier labs I think
recognize what is at stake and what
these models like what what the uh what
the risks are and that's something that
I I find comforting that I think
everybody really understands like okay
this is a pretty serious thing and it
can lead to really great things or it
can lead to really bad things and yes
there's a competitive dynamic between
the labs but like we can also try to
figure out how we all get to the
positive outcomes rather than the very
negative outcomes. I I think you know
I'd be remiss to ask just because you
have been right very early for a long
time um on the importance of test time
compute and reasoning as a framework
like are there ways in which you use the
models that you should you would
encourage others to right is it just
goal everything
>> I think for a lot of people
they worked I mean this is probably not
even true for your audience necessarily
but there's a lot of people that
experimented with AI back in like 2012
23 and felt like they couldn't trust the
outputs and then don't use it for really
high stakes decisions. And actually, I
think the models have progressed to a
point where they are very good for these
kinds of things. I mean, I asked them
tax advice or I bought a condo recently
and I was asking it for advice on like,
okay, well, what's all the paperwork
that I have to fill out and like how to
how do I what does it all mean? It's
actually really good for these kinds of
questions. Mhm.
>> So, I use it dayto-day for for a lot of
this kind of stuff. And I think they're
at a point now where they've actually
been at a point for a while now where I
feel like I can just trust the outputs
arguably more than I could trust the
output from from a human,
>> an expert human. Yeah.
>> Okay. I have two two final questions for
you. Um, one is uh is there something
you think that the rest of the research
community doesn't agree with you on or
doesn't understand the importance of
quite yet? Oh, these are such good
questions. I wish I had time to think
about this ahead of time.
>> You can you can just hang out with me
and think about it. Yeah.
>> Is it weird to be like consensus now?
You're a bit salty three years ago when
you're like, why don't people understand
how important this is?
>> I still I still feel like it's not
consensus though because like you know
people still don't publish the
benchmarks this way.
>> Oh, that's true. Yeah.
>> Like that's actually why
>> I think that's like inertia.
>> That's kind of Yeah, but that's kind of
why I wrote the essay. I was just like
look I mean we can talk about this but
like yeah the part of the motivation is
like I would talk to researchers about
um we it makes sense to show the
benchmarks with an x-axis whether it's
tokens or cost or time there should be
an x-axis and everybody would say like
yeah that makes sense we should do that
but everybody
>> they're not acting with the importance
of like good heart like this is we have
to measure the correct thing
>> well really their response is people
expect us to to publish the grid
>> and then okay why do people expect the
grid to be published because everybody
publishes the grid. And so you kind of
end up in this this bad equilibrium
where everybody kind of knows that it's
a bad equilibrium, but like nobody wants
to break out. And I I felt like, okay,
well, if I just hopefully come out and
say like, look guys, let's all recognize
that we're in a bad equilibrium and
let's move to this different equilibrium
where we're we're plotting things with
an X-axis that hopefully that can, you
know, next time there's a model release,
a company can feel comfortable not
publishing the grid, at least not at the
very front uh the top line. and um we
can have a more productive evaluation of
these models.
>> Then a last question for you. How do you
think about companies across all of
these specialized domains who feel the
value that they have is essentially like
the routing layer, the choice layer of
you know my goal is composed of a bunch
of discrete tasks. Some require more
intelligence and less and within my my
job as a vendor is to um solve that
problem or achieve the optimal outcome
with uh taking into account the budget
constraints. And so I will manage like
the parallelization and how how much
inference do you spend on it from what
model because I I think the the frontier
lab point of view is that that routing
happens both within the you know behind
the API behind the application and then
some of it in the model itself. Um and
that's pieces of that are clearly being
externalized in all these applications.
>> Yeah, I do I do think this is related to
the fact that like benchmarks should be
evaluated with an x-axis of tokens or
cost. Um I I have seen some evals
recently that show like okay well with
with a routing layer you can achieve
much better performance um by basically
doing consensus among the models.
>> Yeah.
>> And like I definitely believe that if
you do consensus among the models that
you're going to achieve better
performance than any individual model
but
>> it's important to ask like are you going
to do better than having that model
basically think for longer. Um like once
you control for the amount of test time
compute is it is it actually still doing
better? That's that's the question that
you want to figure out. Okay, that's
very principle of view which is like yes
routing is fine but it's all subject to
the same budget question. Yeah,
>> right. Um if you put it on the same
scaler then you can make an optimal
decision and I think maybe I win.
>> Mhm. I I I don't even know necessarily
that I I would believe that the routing
does better but then there's still a
question of um is it going to do
significantly better? Is it very
fragile? Is it um reflective of real
world use cases compared to benchmarks?
because like one issue you could run
into is that you could optimize for
certain benchmarks with the routing and
then show like oh yeah we see this big
improvement on these benchmarks. Um but
in real world use cases it actually ends
up not being a significant improvement.
So I I would say at the very least like
I would say you want to control for
testime compute and then you also want
to have all the same um skepticism about
benchmarks that you would normally have.
>> Awesome. N thanks so much and and for
being on the mission for uh breaking us
out of this false equilibrium. Yeah,
it's great to be back.
>> Find us on Twitter at no prior pod.
Subscribe to our YouTube channel if you
want to see our faces. Follow the show
on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or wherever
you listen. That way, you get a new
episode every week. And sign up for
emails or find transcripts for every
episode at no-briers.com.